CUMULUS-1370: Docs - Getting Started Section (#2008)
nasa/cumulus: docs/getting-started.md

hide_title: false
---

> [Overview](#overview) | [Quick Tutorials](#quick-tutorials) | [Helpful Tips](#helpful-tips)

Reviewer: I really like this! 👍

## Overview

This serves as a guide for new Cumulus users to deploy and learn how to use Cumulus. Here you will learn what you need in order to complete any prerequisites, what Cumulus is and how it works, and how to successfully navigate and deploy a Cumulus environment.

### What is Cumulus

> Cumulus is a cloud-based data ingest, archive, distribution and management prototype for NASA's future Earth Science data streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cumulus is an open source set of components for creating cloud-based data ingest, archive, distribution and management designed for NASA's future Earth Science data streams.
```

### Who uses Cumulus

> Data integrators/developers and operators use Cumulus for their daily work functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data integrators/developers and operators across projects not limited to NASA use Cumulus for their daily work functions.
```

Reviewer: Maybe we should define integrators / operators here and in the glossary?

* [Developers](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus)
* [Integrators](integrator-guide/about-int-guide)
* [Operators](operator-docs/about-operator-docs)

### What is a Cumulus Data Type

In Cumulus, we have the following types of data that you can create and manage:

* Collections
* Granules
* Providers
* Rules
* Workflows
* Executions
* Reports

For details on how to create or manage data types go to [Data Management Types](configuration/data-management-types).

---

## Quick Tutorials

### Deployment & Configuration

Cumulus is deployed to an AWS account, so you must have access to deploy resources to an AWS account to get started.

### 1. Deploy Cumulus and Cumulus Dashboard to AWS

Follow the [deployment instructions](deployment/deployment-readme) to deploy Cumulus to your AWS account.

### 2. Configure and Run the HelloWorld Workflow

If you have deployed using the [cumulus-template-deploy repository](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus-template-deploy), you have a `HelloWorld` workflow deployed to your Cumulus backend.

> 

Reviewer: Can you do me a favor please and change the link on line 61 to `data-cookbooks/about-cookbooks#setup`

There is a list of Cumulus tasks already included in your deployment [here](tasks).

After configuring your workflow and redeploying, you can configure and run your workflow using the same steps as in step 2.

---

## Helpful Tips

Here are some useful tips to keep in mind when deploying or working in Cumulus.

### Integrator/Developer

> * [Versioning and Releases](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus/blob/master/docs/development/release.md): This documentation gives information on our global versioning approach. We suggest upgrading to the supported version for Cumulus, Cumulus dashboard, and Thin Egress App (TEA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Versioning and Releases](deployment/upgrade-readme): This documentation gives information on our global versioning approach. We suggest upgrading to the supported version for Cumulus, Cumulus dashboard, and Thin Egress App (TEA).
```
The `release.md` doc is internal to the team since most people would not have the permissions to actually do a release.

> * [Cumulus Developer Documentation](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus): We suggest that you read through and reference this resource for development best practices in Cumulus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Cumulus Developer Documentation](https://github.com/nasa/cumulus#cumulus-framework): We suggest that you read through and reference this resource for development best practices in Cumulus.
```

Just linking straight to the README
